[Music]
with Al jazer straight to the US
President Joe Biden who's speaking in
Nantucket massachusett now and uh so
those who are now uh rapping Abigail in
love and care and the Supportive
Services she needs she's been through a
terrible trauma you know her mom was
killed in front of her when her when her
kabut was attacked by Hamas Terrorist on
October 7th Abigail ran to her dad then
who then was gunned down gunned down as
well while using his body to Shield
little Abigail she then ran to a
neighbor for help where they were all
taken hostage that entire house of
neighbors were taken hostage by Hamas
and held for 50 days what she endured is
Unthinkable Abigail was among 13 hostage
released today from Gaza under the
broker and sustained the Intensive us
diplomacy she's now safely in Israel and
we continue to press and expect for
additional Americans will be released as
well and we will not stop working till
every hostage is returned to their loved
ones as I said when I spoke about this
deal on Friday this has been the product
of a lot of hard work and weeks of
personal engagement for me and my team
we've been in close contact with the
leaders of cutter Egypt and Israel
speaking with each one of them
repeatedly over the past few weeks to
help secure this deal we spoke again
yesterday with the mayor of cutter I owe
special thanks to in order to keep the
hosi release on track and push for
Abigail to be part of this release and
I'll be speaking again shortly with
prime minister Benjamin Netanyahu and we
will continue to remain personally
engaged personally engaged to see that
this deal is fully implemented and work
to extend the deal as well for weeks
I've been advocating to pause in the
fighting for two purposes to to increase
the assistance getting into the Gaza
civilians who need help and to
facilitate release of hostages we know
that innocent children in Gaza are
suffering greatly as well because this
war that Hamas has Unleashed is so has
such consequences thousands have been
killed and from the earliest days of
this crisis I've worked closely with
President CCE of Egypt the Israeli
government King Abdullah of Jordan and
leaders throughout the region to expand
the delivery of critical humanitarian
assistance to help innocent Palestinians
in need who are not part of Hamas under
this deal fighting in Gaza has now been
paused for three days over that time 58
hostages have been released including
the tie of Filipino and Russian
Nationals dozens of families have been
reunited and we worked urgently urgently
to take advantage of the pause to Surge
Aid into Gaza we've moved approximately
200 Aid trucks into Gaza each day day
loaded with food water medicine Fuel and
cooking gas more is needed but this deal
is delivering life-saving results
critically needed Aid is going in and
hostages are coming out and this still
is structured so that it can be extended
to keep building on these results that's
my goal that's our goal to keep this
pause going Beyond tomorrow so that we
can continue to see more hostages come
out and surge more humanitarian relief
into into those in who in need in Gaza
we've seen this is the day byday
approach hour by hour process nothing is
guaranteed and nothing is being taken
for granted but the proof that this is
working and worth pursuing further is in
every smile and every grateful tear we
see on the faces of those families who
are finally getting back together again
the proof is little Abigail more than 20
other children 18 years and younger have
been released they been released through
this deal as well they've endured a
terrible ordeal they can now begin the
long journey toward healing I'm going to
continue working with the Amir of cutter
president CCE of Egypt and prime
minister Netanyahu of Israel to do
everything possible to see the hostage
are freed all the hostages I'm grateful
for the personal partnership as we puru
this deal from each of those men I just
mentioned and as we've worked together
to see the see all this implement now to
try to extend it further I'll continue
working with all our partners to take
the hard but necessary steps to build an
integrated and more prosperous and more
peaceful future in the region a
two-state solution is the only way to
guarantee the long-term security of both
Israelis and Palestinian people to make
sure Israel and Palestinians alike live
an equal measure of freedom and dignity
we'll not give up on working toward that
goal so thank you very much but thank
God she's home the little I justess
can't imagine the enjoyment in the I I
just I wish I were there to hold her Mr
President do you have an update on the
other Americans who are being held and
any sense as to when they would be
released uh we are hopeful but I don't
have anything firmly to tell you at this
moment sir do you expect that if you are
able to use this momentum to extend the
pause have you extracted any guarant
about proof of life for other hostages
or do you have an expectation of how
much longer you could push this cause
well look you know the deal calls for
for every for every 10 hostage release
to extend another day so I'm hopeful
this is not the end it's going to
continue but we don't know and uh but I
get a sense that
um all the players in the region even
the neighbors who aren't have been
directly involved now we looking for a
way to end this so the hostages are all
released and Hamas is is completely
uh how can I say it no longer in control
of any portion of Gaza do they have
control of all of the hostages are there
still other militant groups that you
have to deal with we think there are
probably other militant groups we're not
certain Mr President Mr President how is
um Abigail doing what's her physical
condition um do you have any information
I haven't gotten that information I just
want to let you know immediately they
were going across uh into Egypt as you
recall that was a roote but an older
non-american elderly elderly woman is
very sick and was in need of immediate
medical help so they arranged a cross
directly into Israel to be able to take
her to a hospital all I know is that she
was been held I don't know I haven't
seen a photograph I've just put in
communication with my team but she is
safely ins sconed in Israel but there's
a lot more work to be done how many days
would you like to see
the I would like to see us move to a
point where we were able to
uh well let me put this way I'd like to
see the pause go on as long as prisoners
kept coming
out all right thank you all so very much
I know you know we have to call
you I know you said what's he call me
with only 10 minutes or so notice I said
that's the notice I get because we
didn't know I didn't want to be having
this press conference if they weren't
physically even when they were in the
Red Cross Ambulance I didn't want to do
it because they were not out they were
they were still in Gaza so uh I don't
thank you enough but thanks for your
patience and I know we're here
anytime all right Jo I think happy
holiday okay happy holidays okay you are
watching aler that's the tail end of an
important press conference by the US
President Joe Biden who's been speaking
uh about the release of a US national a
four-year-old Abigail Eden who has been
released by Hamas from Gaza she sadly
lost both of her parents in the October
7th attack in southern Israel he also
acknowledged the the suffering in Gaza
and reiterated that he'd been speaking
to all of the regional players Qatar and
Egypt when it comes to hopes of a
lasting ceasefire he says we need to
take advantage of this pause to get Aid
in we need to build on these results to
keep it going Beyond tomorrow he said it
was a day byday approach